This is a generic README file for the arch directory.
You should also read the CHANGES for and Naming.doc file.

 The color bitmap files use the XPM library (called xpm-3.4f on
most ftp sites.  A later version may be out now.)

 This library is needed in order to compile crossfire with the color
pixmap support.

 The pixmap files have the same name as the bitmap file with ".xpm"
concatenated to the end.  If your system has short filename length
limits, this may cause a problem.

 I use 'pixmap' to edit the xpm files.  This should be available the
same place the xpm library can be found.  It does require the xpm
library.

All of the XPM files have been colored.  However, only a small number
have actually been done so properly - that is, by hand, and with the
proper outlines.  Many people are working on fixing more of these up.

 If you do start to work on colorizing the other directories, please
let me know.  Otherwise, you may start working on something that someone
else has already done.

The file xpm.template in the dev directory is a XPM file that has all of
the colors that are allowable for XPM files.  This is to limit the total
number of colors used, in order not of overrun color spaces on systems.
If you really need a color not in that file, please send mail to Mark
Wedel (mwedel@pyramid.com), and it might be added to the list of
acceptable colors.

For a list of colors to use, look at the dev/xpm.template file.


 Mark Wedel
mwedel@pyramid.com
----
Some coloring/perspective hints/clarifications from David Sundqvist:

Perspective in Crossfire is based on the XY coordinate system of possible
player movements, with a slight tilting of the graphics to allow for
greater detail and more interesting graphics, since walls have to be in
that perspective to allow joining. X and Y in graphics should correspond
to X and Y in the object. Z in the object is represented with 2 Y/X.
Keeping perspective consistency is mainly important in fixed objects
like buildings, walls and other background.

Light should generally come from the right side, so the left side of
buildings should be darker or shaded, as needed. 

Wind is generally coming from the left side, so smoke or other things
affected by wind should be travelling towards the right side.
