
Meaning/uses of Gods archetype values. No particular value is 
needed to be specified (but it helps!).

 name          - name of the god  
 title         - diametrically opposed god (not required) 
 other_arch    - name of the archetype which is summoned by the holy servant spell
 race 	       - the name of the race of creatures that are aligned w/ the god.
                 "summon cult monsters" and "pacify" are 2 (of many) spells that 
		 use this. Value can be omitted if no race exists. 
 slaying       - name of the race of creatures "holy word","holy possession"
                 spells will effect. Used by other things too. Value can be 
                 be omitted if no such race exists.  
 attacktype    - favored attack of this god, used in summoning spells and "holy 
		 possession". Weapons blessed by the god get this too.
 protected     - Priest of this god gets this.
 vulnerable    - Priest of this god and recipient of "curse" spell gets this.
 immune        - Recipient of "holy possession" gets this.
 path_attuned  - priest of this god and recipient of "bless" gets this
 path_repelled - priest and recipient of "curse" gets this
 path_denied   - priest and recipient of "curse" gets this
 msg           - comma delimited list of descriptive terms (used by book code).

 wc, ac, hp, dam, etc. - get used when the 'god' is summoned as an avatar.

 last_eat, last_heal, last_sp, last_grace, & various flags - these are used to 
	 	 pass on certain properties to the worshiping priest. 

Treasure list reference:

Such a list is passed to create_treasure() with flag GT_STARTEQUIP.
The generated treasure is put into the followers inventory.  The
follower can get unlimited amounts of this treasure just by praying
long enough.  See below ("other visible items") for an alternative
way of giving items to followers.

Invisible books (with specific names):

Can be accessed through determine_holy_arch() which will return the
item's other_arch field.  For example, such book with name "avatar"
determines the avatar archetype for the "summon avatar" prayer.
Note that determine_holy_arch will return one random item if there are many.

Invisible book with name "grace limit":

If follower doesn't have maximum grace, or follower's grace is less
than item->stats.grace, a "holy possession" prayer is invoked and the
function returns.  Can be used to limit the lower part of the treasure
list to followers with much grace.

Invisible book with name "restore grace":

If the follower's grace is negative, sets the grace to a small
positive value and returns.

Invisible book with name "restore hitpoints":

If the follower's hitpoints are not at their maximum, sets hitpoints
to maximum and returns.

Invisible book with name "restore spellpoints":

Can restore the followers spellpoints.  The maximum spellpoints for
this effect are calculated using this formula:

  max = follower->stats.maxsp * (item->stats.maxsp / 100.0)

In other words, the item's stats.maxsp is the maximum in percent
relative to the followers normal spellpoint maximum.  If the followers
current spellpoints are below 50% of 'max', they are set to a random
value between 50% and 100% of 'max', and the function returns.

Invisible book with name "heal spell":

Casts a heal spell (which spell is determined by item's slaying or
stats.sp field) and returns if the spell was successful.

Invisible book with name "remove curse":

Removes curse from all cursed (but not damned) items, returns if curse
was removed from at least one item.

Invisible book with name "remove damnation":

Removes curse and damnation from all cursed or damned items, returns
if curse or damnation was removed from at least one item.

Invisible book with name "heal depletion":

Removes all depletion effects and returns unless the follower's stats
were not depleted.

Invisible book with name "voice_behind":

The follower hears a voice from behind.  item->msg is what the voice
says.  Always returns.

Invisible book with name "message":

The follower receives item->msg as a simple message.  Always returns.

Invisible book with name "enchant weapon":

The follower's weapon is enchanted in various ways.  item->level
affects how much the weapon is enchanted, higher value means less
enchantment.

Invisible spellbooks:

If the prayer in the book is not yet known to the follower, and the
follower has the required level, teaches the prayer to the follower
and returns.  The prayer is determined by item's slaying field.

Visible spellbooks:

If the prayer in the book is not yet known to the follower, the
follower has the required level, and the follower doesn't already have
a spellbook with that prayer, gives a copy of this spellbook to the
follower and returns.  The item must have FLAG_STARTEQUIP.  The prayer
is determined by item's slaying field.

Other visible items:

If the follower doesn't already have this or a similar item (with same
type, name, title, msg and slaying fields), gives a copy of this item
to the follower.  You have to set FLAG_STARTEQUIP in the archetype
yourself if you wan't the copy to have this flag.  This method (with
FLAG_STARTEQUIP set) should be prefered for giving items to followers,
because it is rather safe to use.  The amount is limited, because if
the follower wants more of it he has to go back to an altar of his
god.  He can't pray an hour over an altar and then go fighting with a
hundred potions of restoration.

Other invisible items:

If the follower doesn't already have it this item, gives it, similar
to visible items.  Except, it ALWAYS gives it, upon conversion.
And on conversion to another religion, it is ALWAYS removed.
Signs and forces and skills may not be given/taken this way.
