Random Map Styles

 Some comments are necessary on the various styles.

  A style is always a crossfire map, like any other crossfire map.
However, they are treated differently.  So some care is required for what goes into the styles directories.

 Contents of maps/styles:


  decorstyles

   "Decor" are objects which are primarily for atmosphere.  Decor
is presently placed randomly in the map.  Live objects should
NOT be placed in decor styles.  Examples of decor include pentagrams
on the floor, braziers, bushes, craters, trees.  Decor objects are
not usually placed on top of other objects except floors.


  doorstyles

   Doors are needed in the game.  The doorstyles are split into subdirectories:
hdoors/*, vdoors/*, and 2 other directories which are not used.
ONLY BREAKABLE DOORS BELONG HERE.  NO DOORS REQUIRING KEYS.  The hdoors
are doors with horizontal faces, vdoors are vertical.  For each file in
vdoors there should be an identically named file in hdoors.


  exitstyles

   Exits are how you get from random map to random map, or back out
of random maps, or into a quest level.  "down" exits are exits which
look "down", like holes in the floor, stairs down, etc.  Up exits
are analogous.  For every "up" style there should be a corresponding "down"
style.  The generic exits don't need counterparts.  Which set the
random map generator picks depends on the orientation of the map:  see
RandomMaps.doc

  floorstyles

   Styles of floors.  Right now, one floor is chosen from one style, and
that is the floor for the whole map.  If you want to specify a specific
floor, make a style with only that floor in it and tell the random map
generator
floorstyle <your_style>

  misc/fountains

   This is a special map used by the specials code.  When placing random
fountains into maps, an object is picked from this map, and made to
look like a fountain.  Most of them are potions, but some of them are
traps.  Some potions are good, others bad:  they're mostly beneficial
at this instant.

  monsterstyles

   Only subdirectories are allowed in this directory.  Each subdirectory
must contain one or more files of the form filename_#
where # is a non-negative integer.  The number indicates dungeon level.
The style file with a # closest to the current dungeon level is used
for choosing the monsters.

  specialmaps

   These are special maps.  They are NOT styles:  they are small maps
which are included  verbatim into larger maps.
SPECIAL MAPS MUST HAVE A 1-square PASSABLE
BORDER AROUND THEM:  otherwise, they may break the map they're placed in.

  specialstyles

   Unused.  Probably misc/fountains belongs in here.  Oh well.

  trapstyles

   Unused.  When/if someone get around to putting traps into the generator,
maybe these will matter.

  treasurestyles

   Styles of treasures.  Treasures are picked randomly from the styles,
similarly to decor.  Frequency of appearance in the randomly generated map
is proportional to frequency of appearance in the style map.

  wallstyles

   The different wall styles.  One wall from one of these files is
picked for the walls of the entire random map, similar to floors.
