Map Maker's Guide to Runes and Traps	(by peterm@soda.berkeley.edu)

* in this document, 'rune' and 'trap' are interchangeable terms.

A rune is a magical enscription on the dungeon floor.  Traps
are just like runes except they are not magical in nature, and
generally have a physical attack.

Runes hit any monster or person who steps on them for dam damage
in 'attacktype' attacktype.  In addition, there is a generalized
rune which can contain any spell at all, and will cast this spell
when it detonates.

Many traps and runes are already defined in the archetypes.

  Here's a guide the the fields in a Rune:  (archetype)

level		--	Level the rune will cast the spell it contains at,
			if applicable.   A level 99 rune casts a very,
			very mean spell of whatever.  (Warning: level 0
			runes won't detonate at all!)  Also effects
			how easily a trap may be found and disarmed.

Cha		--	Determines what fraction of the time the
			rune is visible:  randomly visible 1/Cha of the
			time.  Also effects how easily the trap
			may be found.

sp		--	Spell in the rune, if any (the index of the spell)

slaying		--	name of the spell in the rune, if any.
			Optional, but if present, overrides sp.
			recommended for use by mapmakers to ensure portability.

other_arch	--	spell archetype of the spell in the rune, if any.
			Optional, but if present, overrides sp and slaying.

hp		--	How many times the rune detonates before disappearing

attacktype	--	If there isn't any spell, what attacktype to use
			when the rune detonates

face		--	face the rune has

msg		--	What the rune says to the victim when it detonates

dam		--	How much damage is done by the rune, if it does
			not cast a spell

anim		--	face1 is the default face of the rune.
face1			face2 is the face of a rune detonation.
face2			A detonating rune inserts a dummy object
mina			with face2 on the square.

direction	--	Direction to cast the spell the rune contains

maxhp		--	Number of spells to cast


Predefined runes for your convenience:  See the Runes pickmap on the editor


IMPORTANT:  When making rune archetypes for spells, name the rune
Object rune_[spell-name].  This convention makes it possible for someone
who does 'cast magic rune <spell>' to create a rune that looks like
your archetype.  Examples:
Object rune_large_fireball
Object rune_invisibility
Object rune_improved_invisibility
  If they're not named this way, someone can write a rune of < >
what looks nothing like the one in the archetypes, even though it does
exactly the same thing.

All runes should be editable.  For example you might want to call up
a rune of fire, and set its slaying so that it casts large fireball
instead of simply burning its victim.


Ideas:  you could blanket a floor with 1pt dam runes of fire, but with
many hp.  Anyone walking across this blanket will be badly hurt if he's
slow or sits on them for a long time, but could cross more or less unhurt
if he's quick.  You could encourage a player to do something rash this
way.

  You could place Runes of Healing behind altar-controlled doors in
temples.  Dump enough money on the altar, and you get access to the
Rune of Healing.  (Or restoration.)

  Also, you could implement a magic bank with runes of transferrence
in the same way.  (Roscoe's energy emporium!)

  A rune of Polymorph with the beam directed down a long passageway
of monsters could REALLY cause chaos.  Oohhhhh, fun, fun fun!!
Runes of lightning oriented down long passageways could be lots of
fun as well!
