Generated files:
----------------

The "collect.pl" file is a script to generate the other files in this section.
To run it, one inserts a symlink to the arch directory in the current directory,
and then runs "make collect".

These files are moved into $PREFIX/share/crossfire by default.

The "archetypes" file contains lots of generalized objects which makes it
easier for the program to use similar items over and over again.

The "smooth" file contains data for the tile smoothing feature.

The "animations" file contains named animations.

The "bmaps" file contains as list of which face name is associated with which
face number.

The "bmaps.paths" file contains as list of which image path is associated with
which face number.

The "crossfire.0" and "crossfire.1" files contain all of the image files from
the archetypes.

The "faces" file contains a list of what magicmap colors are associated with
which image faces.

The "treasures.bld" file contains all kinds of randomized treasure. This file
is created the "treasures" file in addition to the archetypes.


Non-generated game data files:
------------------------------

These files are moved into $PREFIX/share/crossfire by default.

The "treasures" file contains all kinds of randomized treasure, to be used when
an archetype is generated from the "archetypes" file.

The "artifacts" file defines artifacts, which are modified versions of normal
objects, which randomly appear.

The "image_info" file defines different tilesets.

The "messages" file contains messages to be inserted in random books.

The "formulae" file contains "alchemy formulae" for alchemy and other crafting
skills.

The "races" file contains a list of defined races (archetypes don't have to
use those races though), it also serves as a summoning list file.

The "attackmess" file contains messages for players to recieve when they hit
something or are hit by something.

The "materials" file defines named materials.

The "def_help" file contains the help message to display to players when they
type the "help" command with no parameter.

The "help" directory contains entries for the "help" command.

The "wizhelp" directory contains entries for the "help" command for dm commands.

The directory "adm", if it is here, contains administrive scripts and their
log-files.


Settings files:
---------------

These files are moved into $PREFIX/etc/crossfire by default.

The "motd" file contains any messages to the players as they connect. In the
motd you can also use mediaTags, as defined in ../doc/mediaTags.

The "news" is intended for server news, and it is also displayed to players as
they commect. mediaTags can be used as in the motd.

The "rules" is intended for server rules, and it is also displayed to players as
they commect. mediaTags can be used as in the motd.

The "forbid" file, us for settings times that playing on the server is
disallowed.

The "ban_file" file contains a list of users or sites that are banned from the
server.

The "dm_file" file contains a list of which users/passwords/hosts are allowed
dm access.

The "exp_table" file contains the table of how much experience is required for
each level.

The "settings" file contains settings for the server
